# Bachelor's Thesis: Investigating the Impact of Voting Protocols in Multi-Agent Decision-Making with Large Language Models Driven Agents in a Democratic Environment

**Abstract:**

This research project studies the influence of voting mechanisms on decision-making outcomes within multi-agent systems composed of large language model (LLM) based agents. In a simulation environment, a group of agents (selected based on demographic attributes) is repeatedly asked to evaluate a specific topic and make a vote either for or against it. The experiment is centered around the benchmark simulation, with other simulations being slightly different from it, and a comparison of the results of those experiments. In an initial benchmark experiment phase, the system runs multiple simulations under a baseline voting scenario to establish statistical information. Subsequently, the further phases introduce various voting mechanism designs, including encouraging or discouraging prompt addition, to determine their impact on collective decision-making patterns. Throughout this process, metrics such as the mean, standard deviation, and confidence intervals are evaluated to quantify changes in group consensus and opinion distribution. The findings have the potential to inform future approaches to designing multi-agent interactions and improving the fairness, transparency, and robustness of collective intelligence systems. Moreover, as the dataset with persona profiles used as backgrounds for the agents implies real-life people, this experiment&#39;s results have the potential to mirror the affection of voting mechanism design on voters’ decisions. As multi-agent systems continue to shape fields from policy-making simulations to collaborative information synthesis, understanding the mechanics of voting behaviors will be essential for creating more reliable and equitable intelligent frameworks.

**Keywords:** multi-agent systems, voting mechanisms, voting protocol,
generative agents, large language models, persona profiles.
